Craig Richard Webster

ADDRESS  : 43 Pattison House, Redcross Way, London. SE1 1EY.
TELEPHONE: 07921 217445
EMAIL    : craig@barkingiguana.com

EMPLOYMENT

04/2010 - 02/2011: Senior Software Engineer, Picklive
02/2011 - Present: Technical Architect, Picklive
  Real-time online gambling site built predominantly using Ruby on Rails.

  Introduced message-oriented SOA to split large monolothic application into
  several small maintanable applications and reduce the amount of work done
  during the HTTP request-response cycle.

  Responsible for credit card processing, fraud detection, PCI DSS
  compliance, deployment platform setup and maintenance, building a CI and
  deployment pipeline, scaling the application to allow many concurrent
  real-time connections, investigating user play patterns, load and
  performance testing, interviewing candidates, internal hackdays.

03/2010 - 04/2010: Software Developer, Carbon Hub
  Working on a complex Ruby on Rails application aimed to help large
  companies and governmemt agencies reduce their carbon emissions.

  Part of a geographically diverse team, delivered and deployed features
  required to aid sales of the software. Built deployment platform on EC2.

03/2009 - 03/2010: Senior Software Engineer, Agency.com
  Responsible for hosting, implementation and maintenance of
  public-facing projects for large clients such as British Airways.

  Included building interfaces from mock-ups using Javascript (usually
  Prototype or jQuery), CSS and HTML, and either CakePHP or Ruby on
  Rails. Built hosting platform on EC2 using CentOS and Ubuntu Linux
  with S3 used as a filestore and EBS for database store.

  Revived infrequently used Continuous Integration solution and applied
  it to the majority of our projects, increased and maintained test
  coverage and development of existing projects, developed and
  maintained new projects according to client requirements, encouraged
  use of version control, introduced Capistrano and native packages as
  a deployment mechanism and started hosting hackdays to increase our
  engagement both internally as a team and externally with the wider
  community. Helped emphasise the importance of software security.

11/2007 - 03/2009: Software Engineer, BBC
  Implemented internal tools using Ruby on Rails and plain Ruby.

  Responsible for a central component in iPlayer for Radio which
  controls the content and media availability for BBC iPlayer,
  BBC /programmes and parts of BBC /music. Worked closely with all
  three of these teams to develop suitable solutions. Introduced a
  scalable hosting platform for business applications and educated the
  team on its use. Aided adoption of upcoming pan-BBC infrastructure
  such as a message-oriented middleware (ActiveMQ). Introduced
  Continuous Integration and encouraged uptake of RSpec and Cucumber to
  test-drive development. Rewrote portions of code to remove potential
  for SQL injection attacks. Worked with local operations team to
  create a stable deployment environment. Introduced story-driven
  development to the Visualising Radio prototype.

  The DDA and accessibility in general is very important to the BBC and
  at every stage we had to take reasonable steps to ensure compliance.

  Scrum and some XP principles were applied to drive our development
  and release cycle, manage client requirements and set project
  deliverables to meet extremely tight deadlines.

01/2007 - 11/2007: Systems Developer, Orkell
  Part of a three strong Ruby on Rails team tasked with building a
  complex hosted content management system which was be used by several
  professional bodies and academic institutions to market and provide
  training courses and related content to their members.

  Maintained the production environment, provided clear concise
  documentation, ensured high continuing quality of Rails code,
  modified YUI-JS and YUI-CSS based interface, conducted user-testing,
  maintained the RSpec test suite.

  Behaviour driven development and a Scrum/XP-like methodology were
  adopted to drive this project. Ajax (through Prototype) was used
  where appropriate to improve the user experience.

09/2006 - 11/2006: Freelance Software Engineer, Tee Genius
  Built an integration platform in J2EE which offered a SOAP API to
  book golf tee times. Worked alongside another developer to integrate
  the platform with the Tee Genius website and offer this functionality
  to their members.

  Responsibilities included writing the test suite (jUnit), building
  and maintaining the production environment (Apache and Tomcat), and
  managing application deployment (using Ant).

01/2006 - 08/2006: Freelance Software Engineer, Various Companies
  Collaborated with external design agencies to create several
  websites in a variety of languages and frameworks such as Rails and
  PHP (Zend Framework). Sites included eCommerce sites, content
  management systems and simple contact-us adverts.

  Built and maintained hosting platform and introduced TDD with
  Test::Unit and PHPUnit. Educated developers in use of Subversion and
  Capistrano.

07/2005 - 11/2005: Software Developer, Attacat
  Used PHP (tested with PHPUnit) to created in-house tools for a
  startup company specialising in search engine marketing. Tools
  included automated reports, search engine keyword suggestion, search
  engine pay-per-click account management and included integration with
  several external SOAP services and several legacy systems.

EDUCATION
  2001 - 2005: Edinburgh University B.Eng(Hons.) Software Engineering
  1995 - 2001: Bathgate Academy     6 Higher Grades, 1 Advanced Higher

SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE
  Proficient with Ruby, Rails, Git, Subversion, Javascript, Test and
  Behaviour Driven Development, TextMate, OS X, Linux, Sysadmin.

  Working knowledge Bash, CSS, Semantic markup, LaTeX, SQL, Agile
  development methodologies, SMTP, HTTP, Nagios, ActiveMQ, PHP.

  Basic knowledge of Erlang, Node.js.

HOBBIES
  Snowboarding, skating, photography, swimming, rock climbing.

MISCELLANEOUS
  My Projects: http://github.com/craigw
  My Blog    : http://barkingiguana.com/
  Flickr     : http://www.flickr.com/photos/craigwebster
  Twitter    : @craigwebster

REFERENCES
  Available on request.
